diode-sdk-python/README.md, before:

# Diode SDK Python

Diode SDK Python is a Python library for interacting with the Diode ingestion service utilizing gRPC.

Diode is a new NetBox ingestion service that greatly simplifies and enhances the process to add and update network data
in NetBox, ensuring your network source of truth is always accurate and can be trusted to power your network automation
pipelines.

## Installation

```bash
pip install netboxlabs-diode-sdk
```

## Usage

### Environment variables

* `DIODE_API_KEY` - API key for the Diode service
* `DIODE_TLS_VERIFY` - Verify TLS certificate
* `DIODE_SDK_LOG_LEVEL` - Log level for the SDK (default: `INFO`)
* `DIODE_SENTRY_DSN` - Optional Sentry DSN for error reporting

### Example

```python
from netboxlabs.diode.sdk import DiodeClient
from netboxlabs.diode.sdk.ingester import (
    Device,
    Entity,
)


def main():
    with DiodeClient(
        target="localhost:8081",
        app_name="my-test-app",
        app_version="0.0.1",
        tls_verify=False,
    ) as client:
        entities = []

        """
        Ingest device with device type, platform, manufacturer, site, role, and tags.
        """

        device = Device(
            name="Device A",
            device_type="Device Type A",
            platform="Platform A",
            manufacturer="Manufacturer A",
            site="Site ABC",
            role="Role ABC",
            serial="123456",
            asset_tag="123456",
            status="active",
            tags=["tag 1", "tag 2"],
        )

        entities.append(Entity(device=device))

        response = client.ingest(entities=entities)
        if response.errors:
            print(f"Errors: {response.errors}")


if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()

```

## Supported entities (object types)

* [Device](./docs/entities.md#device)
* [Interface](./docs/entities.md#interface)
* [Device Type](./docs/entities.md#device-type)
* [Platform](./docs/entities.md#platform)
* [Manufacturer](./docs/entities.md#manufacturer)
* [Site](./docs/entities.md#site)
* [Role](./docs/entities.md#role)
* [IP Address](./docs/entities.md#ip-address)
* [Prefix](./docs/entities.md#prefix)

## Development notes

```shell
ruff netboxlabs/
black netboxlabs/
```

## License

Distributed under the Apache 2.0 License. See [LICENSE.txt](./LICENSE.txt) for more information.

Commit message:

feat: OBS-453 - diode-sdk-python: README - add link to blog post
Signed-off-by: Michal Fiedorowicz <mfiedorowicz@netboxlabs.com>

diode-sdk-python/README.md, after:

# Diode SDK Python

Diode SDK Python is a Python library for interacting with the Diode ingestion service utilizing gRPC.

Diode is a new NetBox ingestion service that greatly simplifies and enhances the process to add and update network data
in NetBox, ensuring your network source of truth is always accurate and can be trusted to power your network automation
pipelines.

More information about Diode can be found at [https://netboxlabs.com/blog/introducing-diode-streamlining-data-ingestion-in-netbox/](https://netboxlabs.com/blog/introducing-diode-streamlining-data-ingestion-in-netbox/).

## Installation

```bash
pip install netboxlabs-diode-sdk
```

## Usage

### Environment variables

* `DIODE_API_KEY` - API key for the Diode service
* `DIODE_TLS_VERIFY` - Verify TLS certificate
* `DIODE_SDK_LOG_LEVEL` - Log level for the SDK (default: `INFO`)
* `DIODE_SENTRY_DSN` - Optional Sentry DSN for error reporting

### Example

```python
from netboxlabs.diode.sdk import DiodeClient
from netboxlabs.diode.sdk.ingester import (
    Device,
    Entity,
)


def main():
    with DiodeClient(
        target="localhost:8081",
        app_name="my-test-app",
        app_version="0.0.1",
        tls_verify=False,
    ) as client:
        entities = []

        """
        Ingest device with device type, platform, manufacturer, site, role, and tags.
        """

        device = Device(
            name="Device A",
            device_type="Device Type A",
            platform="Platform A",
            manufacturer="Manufacturer A",
            site="Site ABC",
            role="Role ABC",
            serial="123456",
            asset_tag="123456",
            status="active",
            tags=["tag 1", "tag 2"],
        )

        entities.append(Entity(device=device))

        response = client.ingest(entities=entities)
        if response.errors:
            print(f"Errors: {response.errors}")


if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()

```

## Supported entities (object types)

* [Device](./docs/entities.md#device)
* [Interface](./docs/entities.md#interface)
* [Device Type](./docs/entities.md#device-type)
* [Platform](./docs/entities.md#platform)
* [Manufacturer](./docs/entities.md#manufacturer)
* [Site](./docs/entities.md#site)
* [Role](./docs/entities.md#role)
* [IP Address](./docs/entities.md#ip-address)
* [Prefix](./docs/entities.md#prefix)

## Development notes

```shell
ruff netboxlabs/
black netboxlabs/
```

## License

Distributed under the Apache 2.0 License. See [LICENSE.txt](./LICENSE.txt) for more information.
